Category	Sub category	Function	Description
Pre-modeling	Terrain sampling preparation	ecospat.rcls.grd	Reclassifies grid files to get a combined stratification from more than one grid
		ecospat.recstrat_prop	Performs a Random Ecologically Stratified Sampling proportional
		ecospat.recstrat_regl	Performs a Random Ecologically Stratified Sampling equal
	Spatial autocorrelation	ecospat.mantel.correlogram	Investigates spatial autocorrelation of environmental covariables for occurrences
	Variable selection	ecospat.npred	Calculates the maximum number of predictors to include in the model with a desired correlation between predictors.
		ecospat.cor.plot	Plots correlations among predictors
	Extrapolation detection	ecospat.mess	Calculates the MESS (i.e. extrapolation) as in Maxent (Elith et al. 2010)
		ecospat.plot.mess	Plots the MESS extrapolation index onto the geographical space.
		ecospat.climan	Assesses the climate analogy in a univariate and multivariate environmental space
	Niche quantification	ecospat.grid.clim.dyn	Creates a grid z of Rx R pixels (or a vector of R pixels when using scores of dimension 1 or SDM predictions) with occurrence densities, using the scores of two axes from an ordination
		ecospat.niche.overlap	Calculates the overlap metrics D and I based on two species occurrence density grids z1 and z2 created by ecospat.grid.clim.dyn().
		ecospat.niche.equivalency.test	Runs a niche equivalency test (warren et al. 2008) based on two species occurrence density grids.
		ecospat.niche.similarity.test	Runs a niche similarity test (warren et al. 2008) based on two species occurrence density grids.
		ecospat.plot.niche	Plots a niche z created by ecospat.grid.clim.dyn.
		ecospat.plot.niche.dyn	Plots niche categories and species density.
		ecospat.plot.contrib	Plots the contribution of the initial variables to the analysis (i.e. correlation circle). Typically these are the eigen vectors and eigen values in ordinations.
		ecospat.plot.overlap.test	Plots a histogram of observed and randomly simulated overlaps, with p-values of equivalency or similarity tests.
		ecospat.niche.dyn.index	Calculates niche expansion, stability and unfilling.
		ecospat.shift.centroids	Draws arrows linking the centroid of the native and exotic (non-native) distribution (continuous line) and between native and invaded extent (dashed line).
		ecospat.margin	Delineates the distribution's margin and its uncertainty
		ecospat.niche.dynIndexProjGeo	Creates a raster in geography with each pixel containing a niche dynamic index
		ecospat.niche.zProjGeo	Projects Occurrence Densities to the Geography
		ecospat.nicheNBmean	Calculates the weighted mean niche breadth across several axes
		ecospat.nichePOSNB	Calculates the niche breadth and niche position of taxa
	Data preparation	ecospat.sample.envar	Extracts data from environmental table
		ecospat.caleval	Generates an evaluation and calibration dataset with a desired ratio of disaggregation.
		ecospat.CCV.createDataSplitTable	Creates a DataSplitTable for Community modeling
		ecospat.occ.desaggregation	Removes species occurrences in a dataframe which are closer to each other than a specified distance threshold.
		ecospat.rand.pseudoabsences	Randomly samples pseudo-absences from an environmental data frame covering
Core niche modeling	Modeling of rare species	ecospat.ESM.Modeling	"Calibrates simple bivariate models as in Lomba et al. 2010; Breiner et al. 2015"
		ecospat.ESM.EnsembleModeling	Evaluates and averages simple bivariate models to ESMs.
		ecospat.ESM.Projection	Projects simple bivariate models into new space or time.
		ecospat.ESM.EnsembleProjection	Projects calibrated ESMs into new space or time.
		ecospat.ESM.responsePlot	Plots species response curve for Ensemble of Small Models
		ecospat.ESM.threshold	Computes Thresholds to binarize Ensemble of Small Models
		ecospat.ESM.VarContrib	Computes variables' contribution for Ensemble of Small Models
		ecospat.Epred	Calculates the weighted mean of several predictions in dataframe format (Ensemble Models)
		ecospat.maxentvarimport	Computes variable importance for MAXENT models
	Community spatial predictions	ecospat.SESAM.prr	Implements the SESAM framework to predict community composition using a 'probability ranking' rule.
		ecospat.CCV.modeling	Creates probabilistic prediction for all species based on SDMs or ESMs
	Model evaluation	ecospat.cv.glm	Performs a K-fold and leave-one-out cross validation for GLM.
		ecospat.permut.glm	Performs permutations to get p-values on GLM coefficients and deviance.
		ecospat.cv.gbm	Performs a K-fold and leave-one-out cross validation for GBM.
		ecospat.cv.me	Performs a K-fold and leave-one-out cross validation for Maxent.
		ecospat.cv.rf	Performs a K-fold and leave-one-out cross validation for randomForest
		ecospat.boyce	Calculates the Boyce index (hizel et al 2006) 
		ecospat.CommunityEval	Calculates several indices of accuracy of community predictions.
		ecospat.adj.D2.glm	Computes the D2 metric in GLM
		ecospat.CCV.communityEvaluation.bin	Calculates a range of community evaluation metrics
		ecospat.CCV.communityEvaluation.prob	Generates a number of community evaluation metrics directly based on the probability
		ecospat.cohen.kappa	Calculates Kappa based on a given threshold
		ecospat.ESM.EnsembleEvaluation	Evaluates ensemble of small models via the pooling procedure (Collart et al. 2023)
		ecospat.max.kappa	Computes the Maximum value of Kappa
		ecospat.max.tss	Computes the Maximum value of the True Skill Statistic
		ecospat.meva.table	Calculates evaluation metrics based on a given threshold
		ecospat.plot.kappa	Plots kappa value in function of the threshold value.
		ecospat.plot.tss	plot TSS values in function of the threshold value
		ecospat.poolingEvaluation	Uses the pooling evaluation to evaluate any models
Post modeling	Variance partition	ecospat.varpart	Performs variance partitioning for binomial GLM based on the deviance of two groups or predicting variables.
	Conservation	ecospat.rangesize	Quantifies the range size of a species using standard IUCN criteria
		ecospat.occupied.patch	Determines the occupied patch of a species using standard IUCN criteria (AOO, EOO) or predictive binary maps from Species Distribution Models.
	Other	ecospat.binary.model	Binarizes raster based on threshold
		ecospat.mpa	Calculates the minimum predicted area
Other functions	Co-occurrence analysis	ecospat.co-occurrence	Computes an index of co-occurrences ranging from 0 (never co-occurring) to 1 (always co-occurring).
		ecospat.cons_Cscore	Tests for non-random patterns of species co-occurrence and calculates the C-score index for the whole community and for each species pair.
		ecospat.Cscore	Computes and tests if C-scores higher than null model
	Phylogenetic diversity measures	ecospat.calculate.pd	Calculates phylogenetic diversity measures (Schweiger et al. 2008)
